# ["The Coming Divorce Decline""] Validation and Replication results

SUMMARY
-------
I wanted to express how impressed I was by how well documented the code is for this replication. Everything was easy and straightforward to replicate. There is only the issue of citing the ACS, which is well-known but should still be cited.

[REQUIRED] Please cite the American Community Survey data in the manuscript

Data description
----------------

### ICPSR data deposit
- openICPSR metadata is not applicable here

### American Community Survey
- The article uses women's responses to martial events questions in the ACS to evaluate trends in divorce over the past decade
- The data is publicly available and commonly known, but it is not cited in the manuscript. This should be cited.
- Data specifically used in this article can be accessed at: https://osf.io/yb4hr/

Data checks
-----------
> - can data be read (using software indicated by author)?
- I do not have a software that can read the data
> - Is data in archive-ready formats (CSV, TXT) or in custom formats (DTA, SAS7BDAT, Rdata)?
- Data is in .dat format
> - Does the data have variable labels (Stata: run `describe using (name of DTA)` and check that there is content in the column "variable label")?
- Variable labels cannot be checked
> - Run check for PII ([PII_stata_scan.do](PII_stata_scan.do), sourced from [here](https://github.com/J-PAL/stata_PII_scan) if using Stata) and report results. Note: this check will have lots of false positives - fields it thinks might be sensitive that are not, in fact, sensitive. Apply judgement.
- PII could not scan the .dat files


Code description
----------------

There are two provided stata files, one titled "decline.do" and another titled "coming divorce decline with newlyweds.do"

The code is well-documented, and identifies which code segments produce which tables and figures.

Replication steps
-----------------

1. Downloaded code and data from the socarxiv website
2. Added the config.do generating system information
3. Set the Stata working directory as requested and ran decline.do. Code ran successfully
4. In coming divorce decline with newlyweds.do, I created a global pathname and renamed directories in the code accordingly. Code ran successfully.

Computing Environment
---------------------


- Mac Laptop, 8 GB of memory
- CISER Shared Windows Server 2016, 256GB, Intel Xeon E5-4669 v3 @ 2.10Ghz (3 processors)

Findings
--------

### Tables
- Table 1: Looks the same
- Table 2: Looks the same 
- Table 3: Looks the same

### Figures
- Figure 1: Generated using data from Table 1, but not generated by code
- Figure 2: Generated using data from Table 2, but not generated by code
- Figure 3: looks the same 

### In-Text Numbers

[X] There are no in-text numbers, or all in-text numbers stem from tables and figures.

Classification
--------------

- [X] full replication
- [ ] full replication with minor issues
- [ ] partial replication (see above)
- [ ] not able to replicate most or all of the results (reasons see above)
